---
layout: post
Title: Peter Fenten
---

* consumer internet, and 2 other divisions 

h3. 2 stories of failure and redemption

h4. Lue Serney and Jack Dorsey, lost control

* How did they lose control?

* the importance of self awareness. three distinct dimensions
** vision: where are we going
** execution: cadence, and getting stuff done today
** relationship building: being the glue

* Lue and Jack were great visionaries, but they were borderline disabled on all but one

* in both of these companies, the VP's approach the board to kick out Lue and Jack

* Advice: know where you need to be buttressed and complimented

* do some introspection: what type of person are you?

* you need to think about what type of team and support you need to build
** companies don't happen alone

* interesting note: Jack and Lou built the companies in the mirror image of their talents and deficiencies

* Lou's new company reached 10k customers without salesperson... he doesn't like sales people

* look for TED talk who, what, how?
** Twitter's why: twitter brings you closer
*** any employees needs to always be able to answer

* three reasons to sell a company (silicon valley meme)
** more money than ever imagine
** you're screwed
** you're tired

* zuckerberg offered 1 billion from yahoo, said no

h4. learning, always learning

* learn it all, not know it all
* the idea of being too smart to be kept out of opportunities... constant worry today

h4. the three lessons

* self awareness
* start with the why
* keep learning, stay young

h3. Questions

h4. Q: do you look for different people for different jobs

Distance between consumer and producer has collapsed. 

h4. Q: what's a bad *why*? You should be interested in companies with good *why's* but what are bad ones?

Separate good/bad from no why's. 

A bad why: friendster. putting personality before the company's purpose

h4. Q: what's your process for investing in a company?

3 reasons:
* an extraordinary person (1/3 of investments, 1/10 of return)
* momentum (interesting, they claim to look at numbers... site analytics that might be easily tweaked)
** with an asterisk: non-toxic founders
** but... there is not one success story without a fair amount of action/violence... toxicity

h4. Q: what was the impact of Dorsey leaving Twitter?

* problem: there was no one voice directing everything... things just bubbled up from the users

* "twitter is supposed to be better at revealing... through magic and algorithms..." 











