---
layout: layout
title: "Steve Papa, Endeca CEO"
---

* if it's more than 3 clicks away you can't monetize it

h3. Endeca: how do you get to a 1.1 Billion aquisition?

* they became a platform kind of by accident, after tech crash they were simply solving any problem clients could throw at them
* painkiller or vitamin?
* Macro-economic issues make a big difference for small businesses.
* "our success in ecommerce clouded our ability to see how we could be successful outside of that"
* in e-commerce you sell to businesses and developers
* IT doesn't want to be in the business of software development
* One of the challenges of product management: you're always thinking of the customers you have, but we need to really think of the ones we don't have!

h2. main lessons:

* ideas are not in short supply, ideas vs execution
* there is a middle ground: "figuring it out" is the fulcrum between those two
** early customers might not alwyas be right
** experience must be placed in context: success in one contest doesn't ncessarily translate into success in another
** timing, territory, and talent
* the process of starting a business is summarized by *"the relentless pursuit of credibility"*

h2. general principles taught, learned, and earned

* pursue markets you are passionate about
* sidestory: lol "pinterest of interior designers"
* on the current bubble
** "the crash will be painful"
** "early 90's same thing happened with hardware"
** "the best measure is when you drive on 101, look at how much traffic there is"
** "do busines in Boston, silicon valley is toxic for anything long term"

h2. Product Development in the Real World

*

h2. Product Managing/Architecting a "business"

* culture doesn't just happen
* credibility doesn't just happen

h2. Thinking about careers

* Macro trends matter: "plastics" vs aerospace vs internet bubble
* Princeton in the Nation's Service










